I can think of some reasons to live under the ocean.
I think a great place for nightclubs, for
instance. I can think of great nightclubs.
There's a beautiful one in the Gulf of Eilat that
the Israelis have. And you should sit down there
underneath, looking up through glass windows and
everything going on in that beautiful part of the
branch of the Red Sea. I can think of condominiums
for people with emphysema
living under one atmosphere, extra pressure. two
atmospheres of pressure, they could live
perfectly normal lives, couldn't they? That's
all they need. Why should people go around gasping
for breath in the last 10 years of their life when
they could live under one extra atmosphere and
breathe normally?
And this might be a reasonable sort of a location
for a condominium under a couple of atmospheres of
pressure down some beautiful parts of Florida
Straits.
And it makes it much easier to build and less
dangerous if it's under water, where the pressure
is equalized on the inside and outside. But as far
as people just inhabiting the bottom of the ocean
for reasons of space, I'd rather consider taking
Jupiter apart and making some more planets. I
think that's more feasible.
That's a big engineering job. You can make dozens
and dozens of planets.
i'd
like to be around for that one by the way well maybe
you don't want to do that maybe you want to do is just
add a little bit to mars from jupiter you see to make
it more habitable
real chemical engineering job too changing that
ammonia and something else getting water and so on
getting a decent atmosphere were you surprised by
the way with reports coming back from Mars in terms
of the satellite pictures or the landing pictures
we're receiving now? I've been in Baja
California. I've been looking at Martian
landscape for quite a while down there. But what
are these like? They're boulder-strewn, aren't
they? They're boulder-strewn and the
possibility that many of them are cut by water. Oh,
yeah, sure. Well, obviously Mars has its ice caps
of some sort. It has water or some condensable
fluid, has some condensable gas, and it certainly
probably had more in the past. No, I don't think I
was particularly surprised. Not that I was
believing the canals of Mars, but
I think it's perfectly real. What I was really
surprised on at was the surface of Venus. I mean, it
really didn't occur to me, or I guess anybody else,
that with such a dense atmosphere as Venus, and
even with such tremendously high wind
velocities, that the boundary layers should be so
thick that there was no wind at the surface, you
see, essentially windless at the surface. I think
that was strange.
Oh. I... I wanted to ask you two or three questions
about aquaculture. Do you see the future in
aquaculture and such things as planned oyster
beds, or do you see it in terms of mining what we
always classified before as seaweeds, or both?
Well, you know, we start out with I was thinking
we've just thought of agriculture. Of course,
every place in the world other than the United
States has conducted it for a long time. Japanese,
there's tremendous industries all through
Indonesia. Almost everybody in the world knows
more about agriculture than we do. We start out as
though now we're going to solve all these
problems. I was looking at East Pakistan, and East
Pakistan produces in its ponds. Now, this is
freshwater. Ponds and bills. And about as much,
about fish, that little country produced about as
much fish as a third of the U.S. catch, just from its
ponds and fields. Oh, it's essentially cultured.
Well, hell, everybody knows more about this than
we do. And so I'm not quite sure what you mean when
you ask me about a future of it. If you ask me, is the
United States going to learn from anybody, I'm not
so sure. They're going to go through all the
difficulties of trying to solve the problems all
by themselves. They're going to make it so
expensive that the only thing that can possibly be
used is high luxury food that has nothing to do
about the impact of protein food on the world's
supply, as far as I can see. Now, it does seem to me
that we're trying to jump, if you look at You're an
agricultural historian, and I may be quite wrong
about this history, but it seems to me like there's
a sequential series from the hunting economy to
the gathering economy to what I would call a ranch
where you use preferred herbivores to crop the
land with their own energy to the farm in which you
start to raise the supplies for your domestic
animals. to the battery culture in which you bring
food in to immobilized or essentially
immobilized creatures from whatever worldwide
sources are necessary. Now, we're immediately
leaping to that last step, the battery culture.
But ocean is a poor environment. It's a thin broth
that has trace. The food is highly dispersed in a
dense medium. It's a million times more dilute
than, say, a grass field, a field of grass. A
million times more to lose.
Traditionally, and even today, in modern
society, where you have a poor environment, you
use ranging techniques. You send your preferred
creature out onto this. You don't use diesel oil.
You do a little bit of diesel oil to cultivate or
gather food and bring it into them. You let them
burn some part of the crop that's sparsely
distributed out here, and then you have a roundup.
You bring them back in some way and have made some
net gain. Well, one interesting thing you have in
the ocean is this number of species that will round
themselves up, all the anadromous fishes, the
ones that come in and spawn. And some of these are
primitive feeders. Some of the shads, the hilsa,
the Indian shad, is a particularly fine food fish.
So it seems to me like a sensible step would really
be ranging. That is, you culture a population
which you now turn loose in a thin environment to
graze it and then to return to you, you see. And you
can do some predator control and maybe some
seeding of sorts, just essentially the way you do
it in rangeland management, essentially the same
sort of level. But our effort here is to or leap all
of these steps that we've taken 3,000 years to go
through on land. And go right to battery culture.
Well, I don't know. The problems, obviously, of
animal husbandry, once you get to these more
concentrated levels, has totally been a disease.
And we have spent a tremendous lot of time. It's a
disease of any concentration of organism. And
we've spent a lot of time solving this in the case of
our preferred species on land. Each one of these
organisms in the ocean is going to have a series of
disasters. We try battery culture. Exactly the
same nature, I think. One new disease after
another.
And all the immunization, all the research that
has to go behind it. But in the United States, I
don't think we'll progress beyond luxury food.
Because it's not necessary for us to increase the
protein supply that much? Well, I think the
increased protein supply around the world, and
Ravel may have talked to you about this, is
something of a delusion anyway. But actually, the
world is equally short on fats and oils, probably
more limiting nutrient. But no, because we'll
make things too expensive.
Every time we build a lobster industry, we'll have
to build a sewage disposal plant just to get rid of
the seawater that it went through, and so on, that
went through that lobster culture, and so forth.
Then just the manpower involved in things is going
to make it impossible to culture anything except
luxury species. I think we'll find out some
interesting things. OK. But the ranging of using
some sort of primitive feeder like shad to go forth
into the ocean and concentrate this thin soup of
the ocean and bring it back to us, now that seems to
be a much more viable approach. But you don't think
we'll choose? I don't think we'll choose, no.
I want you to describe how fish population
histories can be inferred from fish scales found
in sediments. No. I wasn't sure I understood that.
And what ecological and evolutionary
implications does this technique have? Well,
it's somewhat unlimited, I think, eventually.
But let me describe the technique to start with. In
a few places, the ocean bottom is continuously
building up, as you know, and continuously moving
and doing all these things that we've begun to
understand from seafloor spreading and
continental drift. But in a few places around the
world, the bottom waters in Usually in near shore
basins are anaerobic or anoxic. They have no
oxygen. And nothing lives there. Even though over
most of the ocean, the sediments are raining down
every year. There are things living there that mix
them up. And so the time resolution that you can get
is of the order of 10,000 years at the best. The
sediments are mixed continuously. But in these
regions, they're laid down in layers that you can
identify year by year. You can put your finger on it
and say, within a few years, that year is the year
zero right there. That's what the sediments were
laid down in the year zero. As you go back in time, it
becomes somewhat less certain. But you can just
count back. And you can check your count with
radioactive dating.
Such sediments exist on land, the whole Monterey
formation, and you can split it open and you can see
peppered with fish scales and other kinds of
debris, diatoms, foraminifera. So you know
something in that year of what the Pacific was
doing, or what the ocean was doing, and something
about what fish were present, you see. Because you
can identify these scales. You can date these
scales. You can tell how old they were and how fast
they were growing. You know what species it was.
You know how old the fish was and how fast it had
grown. So you know a great deal. And you know it for
that year, exactly. Well, the kind of Rosetta
Stone in this whole business is, of course, if you
try this, how well does this agree to the known
history? And when we went through that exercise,
we found it agreed very well with the known
history. where we really know what the
populations of the pelagic fish are out here, our
results from looking at these sediments and
analyzing the number of scales per year coming
down, totally independently, gives us the same
curve of the variation between the number of hake,
the number of anchovies, the number of saris, and
the number of sardines. This gives us confidence
we can make these same kind of counts back into the
past, as far as we want, and see what has been the
relationship between these fish. And what we find
is something very surprising. We find that the
sardine, which was the dominant pelagic fish here
when man first started his fisheries, has never
been here for long periods of time, but only for
short bursts, maybe eight times in the last 1,600
years has it been here in quantity. The anchovy,
however, has been here continuously over the
whole time. So it's really quite an interesting
picture. And my earlier parts of my conversation,
when I said society seemed to be unable to act on
information, this is very powerful information.
You would really never have expected to have such a
real insight into the way these species
interacted in the past and what their natural
abundance was and how it fluctuated. And now to
conceive that a fishery on the Anchovy, a species
that has maintained a sizable population here for
at least the last 1600 years, would be the same as a
fishery on the sardine, a species that was never
able to maintain a sizable population here for
more than 40 or 50 or 80 years at a time. and then only
a few periods, is asinine. I mean, you couldn't
expect it to have the same result, fishery on a
transient species and fishery on a permanent
species.
So in my earlier remarks, I said I thought we had
gotten exquisite answers on some of these
problems that society had enunciated as a
worthwhile problem to work on. And yet the
disappointment is, of course, Not that they don't
act on this, but they don't consider it even in
their actions, just to reiterate. Okay. All
right. What about in terms of evolutionary
implications? Do you foresee being able to see the
evolution in general of fishes and fish species
from this kind of...? Oh, well, of course, that's
the traditional way of going, because their
10,000-year resolution has no particular
consequence. but to see the interrelationships
between the microorganisms, for instance. So we
know how the Pacific was behaving when the sardine
was here, and how it behaved when they changed from
one species to another. We'll eventually know
what environmental conditions mediated these
shifts between species, because we can see how
much mid-Pacific influence there was, how strong
the California current was, how much subtropical
water was flowing up, how strong was the
countercurrent. And do this on a year-by-year
basis. That's a huge job. We have to identify all
the diatoms and foraminifera in these little thin
layers, seven-tenths of a millimeter thick. But
you see, if we now go to a place like the
Bay of Bengal, And the Indians are going to start a
fishery, say, on their astrology. Wouldn't it be a
wonderful thing to be able to tell them, is that a
permanent species here? Is it occasionally
replaced by others? Is it just a transient
species? How steady is the population? How steady
has it been for 10,000 years? These are big answers
for people who want to guide their fisheries in
some rational way.
OK.
Would you judge us to be proceeding cautiously
enough or not cautiously enough in developing the
sea? What do you mean by us? Well, us as Americans.
Would you encourage us to exercise more caution or
less caution? I think caution is the wrong word
there. I would advise us to use more rationality.
Caution is really totally the wrong word.
For example, the whole matter of domestic waste
disposal in the ocean. What do you want to call
caution there? Caution is putting out a billion
dollars in Los Angeles to build tertiary
treatment plants, is it? $200, $300, $500 per
capita when we have so many social needs? Is that
caution? No, all the evidence is the ocean is
perfectly confident to absorb these kind of
wastes. That's its business, absorbing organic
material. So I'm not quite sure what's causing it.
Rationality is the word. Yes, we need a great deal
more, a great deal more. We need people other than
Cousteau advising the government on what to do. He
has reasons to scare people to death.
Which are? funds for his institution. It's going
to be extremely costly to society as a whole. It
doesn't take a balanced viewpoint. There's
pictures of us climbing to the highest mountain
tops and clutching our throats because we're
dying in oxia because we've killed all the
phytoplankton. No evidence. No evidence. Now,
what do you see your role in the future of
oceanography? How do you perceive yourself in in
the coming future? Well, I'd like to know. I have no
idea. I've always been enthusiastic
and melioristic, I guess is the word. Somewhere
between optimistic and pessimistic. I think
melioristic is optimism, but only you have to do
something about it and just have it happen. I've,
to some real degree, right at the moment lost
confidence that events can be influenced very
promptly.
But our political system is such that it really is
not able to respond to the evidence.
It's acclimation,
government by acclimation of some sort. A
politician moves the beat. causes the least stir
in some way, gets the fewest people mad at him. And I
really think maybe we just can't act this way. Now,
maybe we can afford not to act this way. We can
afford to put an extra billion dollars in sewer
plants in every major city along the coast for no
purpose.
And maybe we need to. Maybe it's the WPA of sorts.
Maybe it's the science that we've worked on as a WPA
of sorts at a higher level. Maybe the WPA concept
has evolved so that I'm nothing but a WPA worker
making bridges in some unknown creek in some
unknown mountain that will never be seen again. I
dislike thinking this, but I'm beginning to
wonder if the WPA concept hasn't spread quite a
bit. It worries me to see this wake of scientists
who have tried to serve this country and unable to
serve it. A great number of people that worked on
desalination just announced today that
something you knew 20 years ago when the
desalination program on the OSW was established,
that it was impossible to do this for agricultural
water. And you could make that calculation in an
instant. At that time, you knew that if the ocean
were freshwater, that is, if it were given to you at
sea level, it would have very little effect on our
utilization of water in these United States. It's
too big a continent.
But
I'm not a bit sure. I came to the conclusion that
Israel was full of smart people. They had reason to
be conservative with their resources. They're
screwed up as we are. They've brought our culture
there anyway. They are a piece of the United
States, more or less. They have the same screw-up
as we have. So I'm not quite sure. Mexico? Mexico
looks pretty good, I think. They don't
necessarily follow the tradition. They can have
their micro-ondas instead of stringing copper
wires around forever because Anaconda insists on
it or whatever. They can have their communication
system by some totally modern approach. rather
than by the conventional ones. Can they conduct a
fishery that way? Yes. These are the countries
that are going to maybe profit from this research.
They're starting an anchovy fishery. And they're
going to start it on the basis of the data we've got
to try to help the people of California. Well,
survival is the fittest. I think the same old laws
still act. Are you still intimately involved, by
the way, with Israel? I don't know what you mean,
intimately. We're putting a breakwater over
there. Yeah. I mean, is that process still going
on? Oh, sure. Okay. Yeah. Sure. They're bright
people, but they're screwed up also. They have
their own political system that's copied much
after ours. They also can't do the rational thing.
What role do you see for Scripps' institution in
the future of oceanography? Oh, well, I think
Scripps will be a leader for a long time. He'll be a
leader for the simple reason that there are a lot of
bright people here. There's a foreseeable
future. I think that it has to avoid getting into
huge projects which totally dominate it in any
way. Say, for instance, the Sary project. It
certainly may have a role in that. I think it's
unhealthy for very large projects to dominate an
institution like this, unless they're very
highly generalized ones. I think it should have a
better role somehow in advising the government.
I've been looking at a series of reports lately
in which we really act Now, I collect together
various groups of scientists as rather fixed
panels to review various research projects,
various proposals, and really criticize them.
And I think that's having a salutary influence. I
think that's working rather well. But it's a
rather small scale. I think maybe that's the way
one might act. Really get competent people
together So when Lockheed or API or somebody like
that has a big project, there is a competent review
by competent scientists that are undertaken to
really see if it makes sense so that you don't get in
this funny situation of they're still dealing
with small-scale hydrodynamics when it's really
very large-scale hydrodynamics.
that the role of oceanography, or research in
oceanography, if I may use that word, or
development of the oceans is explosive.
I think that it still suffers, like most research
in the United States, from the final and
enveloping shock wave of Alamogordo, which is, if
you throw enough money at it, you can solve it. That
was foreseeable, wasn't it? You put a billion
dollars in, you released this vast amount of
energy. But somehow, the important thing is that I
remember the days when I was peripherally
associated with these great men who were
responsible for nuclear energy. Karam, Gamow,
Fermi, all these people. And I remember the
excitement there was at that time. Here was really
the new world, Columbus entering the new world.
Many ideas. Nobody had the idea it was going to be
just nuclear reactors in the conventional time.
Today, there were all kinds of ideas of how you use
this nuclear energy, including plowshare, just
as an explosive. We've kind of lost that sense of
adventure. Everybody's treading too lightly.
Somebody else is going to have to do it. French,
possibly. I don't know. They seem more
adventurous right now. They have a different kind
of a government, too. Forty people can argue about
something on forty sides rather than twenty on two
sides.
All kinds of viewpoints can be raised in a
Napoleonic society that can't be raised on in a
common law, English common law society, just
because of the influence, I think, of our
judiciary system.
The influence of our judiciary system? Of our
judiciary system, our advocative system. Oh, OK.
All right.
Then you conceive? It's a curious output, as I
understand it. And you probably know much more
about this, and your wife probably knows more than
you do about it. it seems to me that a result of the
napoleonic system is you try to get at the truth not
just this is the the gray area is considered the
pros and cons it's a court of equity rather than a
court of law if i use these terms correctly in the
united states all these things are decided as
though they were court of law either right or wrong
one or the other science isn't that way